.. _feedback1:

##############################
Feedback from days 4 through 8
##############################

As of April 29 2013

THINGS YOU LIKE BEST ABOUT THE COURSE SO FAR
--------------------------------------------

It starts with raw data, and works through every step of preprocessing, leaving
no detail uncovered.  The instructors emphasize the logic of each step,
something often overlooked by people who use "point and click," black-box
software packages. +3

I've heard Matthew lecture on fMRI analysis several times in the past, and I
have to say, he has become a master at conveying his very important messages
clearly and concisely, to beginners and experts alike.  It's a privelege to have
him around.  Of course, JB and Paul are outstanding as well. +2

The homeworks are really well-designed.  They're quick and easy to complete, but
illuminate issues that would otherwise be easy to miss. +1

I liked the in-class assignments (the small functions we were asked to complete
during class). We could have one or two of these in every class.+1

The things we learn are cumulative.  I like that we cover topics once and then
cover them again in later stages or later classes.  Seeing things more than once
really helps to gain a grasp of how they work, and lets them become integrated
with the new material. +1

THINGS YOU LIKE LEAST ABOUT THE COURSE SO FAR
---------------------------------------------

The focus on minute details -- a blessing of the course -- can at times become
its curse, when lengthy, confusing discussions about obscure coding or math
issues seem to detract from the big picture.  Getting to the bottom of those
details is without doubt important, but our time is limited, and attention could
be better allotted to give priority to the most important things. +2

-- I find that I often get lost on these details as well, and most go over my
head... as a beginner (with a very basic understanding of Python, that is), I
feel happy when I understand about 50% of what we've covered. I may be alone in
this... +1

It may be useful to assign some reading before class introducing the issues to
be dealt with next. For instance, the MRC webpages put together by Matthew and
others are a good intro and may help to explain the problem we are trying to
solve for anyone who doesn't have much fMRI experience. Then, before going
through the code, we could go over how we will approach the problem conceptually
(or go over the statistics before they are implemented in the code). This way,
even if people get lost in the code, they will be able to take away a big
picture lesson on how to deal with common imaging issues in the future. +1

STUFF YOU'D LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT
-----------------------------------

I don't know where we're headed, but it's really important to me that, by the
end of this course, I know how to write all my own code to move from raw data to
completed analysis.  As long as the course provides pre-written notebooks to get
from the beginning to the end, I should be OK -- whatever I don't understand by
the end of the course I'll review after it's over.  It would be great if the
instructors could point us to good reading material about the issues they aren't
able to delve deep into. +3

I like it when we approach a problem as a class, rather than just reading code
that has already been written (though that is definitely useful as well). +1

It would be nice to achieve a couple "big picture" items per class in order to
keep the necessary attention to minute detail in context.+1

It would be helpful if any variables defined in the notebook were explained
explicitly. For the most part this is done well, but one notebook from the 19th
was rather confusing.

I'd like to learn a bit more about the pros/cons of various pre-processing
steps. For instance, how can we test the best parameters to coregister the
images we may have?

ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
-------------------

Great job, guys! +1

I hope this course becomes a regular offering. It really is valuable,
particularly learning how to break out of the black box and work with data
directly.

Please offer this course again for those of us who could not make it or would
like to review the material a second time.  It also might be good to offer a
separate intro python lessons beforehand (and have pre-requisite intro python
homework) so that those unfamilar can learn the basics and those familar don't
waste their time.

I think this course might be better divided into two distinct sections: 1) A
Python basics section that helps everyone feel competent with running basic
Python code and using the notebook  2) A fMRI analysis section that gets into
the higher level topics. I think this format could help with attrition.+2

I'm really sorry I've dropped off - I enjoy the learning the nuts and bolts, but
have had conflicts the last several weeks... if I'm too far behind I'd love the
chance to try again another semester!
